https://antievictionmap.com/narratives-of-displacement-oral-history-map/

The digital-geography-related project I chose to write my essay on was Narratives of Displacement and Resistance - Oral History Maps for SF Bay Area, LA, and NYC. I felt this was an important project that can truly benefit people in the real world, by hearing the stories of those who have been displaced due to processes such as gentrification. Although the goal of the project is not clearly stated by the creators of it, it was found on the Anti-Eviction Mapping Project website. So, I assume it would fall under the goals of the site, in which they state, “the project creates tools and disseminates data contributing to collective resistance and movement building.” This work is done through avenues such as digital visualization, critical cartography, and multimedia storytelling. When looking at some of the major functions of this project, the first thing you see is the ability to choose between the three locations on the map, which are the Bay Area, Los Angeles, and New York City. Once you choose the location you would like to see, you are then shown a map of the area, with red dots representing evictions, and blue dots representing oral histories you can listen to from different neighborhoods on the map. You can hover over the blue dots to get a small description of the oral history that is being told and the name of the person who is telling the story. Once you click on the blue dot, a description box then shows up that also gives you a link to listen to the oral history, which could be through Youtube, Soundcloud, or a video that was uploaded by another volunteer/reporter to the Anti-Eviction Mapping Project website. The map is kept clean and basic, with only small keys telling you the basic functions of the map, such as the difference between the red and blue dots and the fact that you must click on a blue dot to hear the oral history. Looking at the intended audience I believe this is made for anyone who wants to see the human effect that processes such as gentrification along with eviction have on people. It also allows someone who is not familiar with these areas to learn about the past and history of them before they become these hot zones for gentrification. Within this in mind I would say it is more intended for people who live outside of these areas as they are probably not as knowledgeable on what occurred in these areas that have experienced mass evictions and gentrification. I think along with that though you can also say this is for the residents of the area, as a way to reminisce about what their neighborhoods used to be, while at the same time creating a sense of strength and comfort for them as they know they are not alone in this experience. No specific author is credited for this map so I will give the credit to Anti-Eviction Mapping Project, it also looks as though there is no date given for the data collected, but I do believe this may be an ongoing project where data is continually added. Also, the sources credited for the data on the map are OpenStreetMap under ODbL. 

Numerous amounts of layers have been used in this map which is what gives this map its features. This allows the clients to have a better understanding of the topic at hand. An example of this being used is through its tags. Narratives, evictions, relocation, resistance and health are all that makes up this map giving the clients a clear understanding. The SoundCloud feature also gives it clients the ability to explore even more data by listening to the speaker discuss the displacement narrative, while also being free to play around with the map and its features. Some of the major functions include the SoundCloud link, red evictions markers as well as blue circles which contain the oral histories which is seen in the SoundCloud link. Through the tags clients are given even more information through links which provide context on the eviction narrative. The biggest thing is the fact that the client is given the option to filter in specific cities in order to find information regarding evictions which makes it a lot easier for those to find answers to what they are searching for. 

After playing with the project a little bit, I think overall, the UI/UX and web mapping design are solid, but there are room for improvements. To start off with some of the things I like about the design, the first I will say is I appreciate how you can initially click on the area you would like to see before you even open the map. Although the map does allow you to zoom out and zoom into these areas, I did appreciate this small feature. The map is also very simple, it does not overload you with a bunch of information you do not need, it keeps to the information it wants to tell you, the evictions in these neighborhoods and the oral history you can find. When looking on my phone I also find that the map works just as well there, which is always a bonus. I also appreciated that they added a small disclaimer letting people know not to use any of the oral stories found on the map without the permission of the organization first, crediting your sources is important. I think the biggest critique I have of the map are the keys, and this is simply due to the fact that they are just a plastered overlay on the map, especially the key that is stationary, simply telling you to click on the blue dots to hear the eviction stories. I feel the keys could have been integrated better with the map to make it even cleaner. Another issue I had with the map is the way they visualized the data, specifically the number of evictions. Having a bunch of little red dots to represent evictions makes it hard to really understand the scale and number of people who have been affected by evictions in this area. I think something like a scalar bar would have given the viewer a much better understanding for how many people have been evicted from these neighborhoods and would have been much easier to interpret numerically then the red dots that were chosen. Overall, I think the creators did do a good job with getting the information they wanted to the viewers, but I think the few small changes I suggested would have made the map a little cleaner and easier to interpret for the viewer. 

When looking at pros of this project, the one I think is weighed the most is the oral stories aspect of this map. The reason I say this is because I believe when you put faces and stories behind such issues as gentrification, you are able to connect on a much better level with people who are not aware of the issues. This is simply due to the fact that gentrification can easily be played off as something “good” when the lives of the people impacted are silenced. Also having multiple stories within the same neighborhoods is another pro in my opinion as you are able to show that these are not isolated experiences these are experiences of people from a multitude of backgrounds. 

When looking at some of the cons, the only one I could come up with is that the map only focuses on three areas, the Bay Area, Los Angeles, and New York. I think that due to this, someone who is not from these areas, or from an urban city could easily dismiss these stories. As we know, America is a quite individualistic society and many people do not care about something if it doesn’t directly affect them. So although these are heart wrenching stories, somewhat in a city that hasn’t experienced gentrification could easily dismiss it. A way to combat this would be to possibly expand it to more areas then the three listed, which could make outside viewers realize this issue is closer to home than they expected. 

I think this is a pretty easy connection to make but I think this project connects most social theory of resistance. As we know even the mission of this project is set around resistance as one of the goals of the Anti-Eviction Mapping Project is to, “create tools and disseminate data contributing to collective resistance and movement building.” They are an organization that is committed to fighting against the process of gentrification that systematically displaces minority and low-income people. With this project and the others on the website they are working to give people tools to fight against these oppressive systems. Within the digital people have still found a way to push back against a system that is trying to erase them. Although this does not look like the forms of resistance we have seen in the past, it is a form that has been adapted to cater to these modern times. 


